[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So I'm gonna give you,
this not the official title, but
this is kind of the unofficial title for
todays.
This is a two day workshop,
this is the unofficial title cuz,
this is what I give when I give
this one day talk is a standalone.
I call it the What you need to know Parts,
Advanced JavaScript,
The What you need to know Parts.
And I need to explain to you
what my practice is gonna be.
You should already get a flavor from that
just from our discussion of looking at
the spec.
But I want you to understand what
you should be expecting from today.
So first of all I call
it Advanced JavaScript.
Does that mean that I expected you to be
an advanced JavaScripter before walking
in here, before joining online?
No, that's not what I expect.
What I do kind of recommend is that
you're taking this course with
at least maybe one to possibly two
years of experience with JavaScript.
And that's not a requirement,
it's just a recommendation that you at
least be familiar with the language.
So we could call that sort of
somewhere between beginner and
intermediate in terms of your experience,
kind of your base experience.
I'm not gonna teach you how for
loops work,
I'm going to expect that you
understand stuff like that.
But I am gonna take things which
you might consider to be basics.
Things like lexical scope, which you
just sort of, maybe you never heard it
called that, but you just sort of
understand kind of intuitively.
We're gonna take that stuff and
break it down into extremely deep detail.
I'm gonna give you compiler
terminology here in a few minutes.
And that may feel a little uncomfortable,
because some of us aren't quite like me.
I write compilers for fun,
but not everybody does that.
So understanding that kind of deep
terminology and concepts can be difficult.
And so when I say Advanced JavaScript,
it really is kind of the advanced basics.
We're gonna take the basic things
that I think are requirements for
you to understand before you can
be an Advanced JavaScripter.
There's a whole bunch of stuff
that you could spend ten or
more years in this industry writing
JavaScript and never actually understand.
And there's a lot of people
that will attest to that.
I've written JavaScript for a decade and
I didn't understand how closures work.
It's just a fact,
because JavaScript's so approachable,
it's so easy to get up and going.
And you can spend your entire career
never being forced to actually learn it.
I'm gonna force you today to actually
learn how that stuff really works.
So some people would define
Advanced JavaScript as broad as possible.
Let's look at every possible acronym and
framework and hot pattern of the day and
let's talk about all
these possible things.
And there's lots of great courses,
Marc's got lots of great courses and
there's lots of other
great content out there.
Infinite numbers of blogs and
books that talk about that sort of stuff,
that's not what today is.
Today is gonna be a very narrow scope
of what we're gonna discuss, but
we're gonna go extremely deep with it.
We're gonna dig our teeth deep into this
stuff, so that's what I mean by advanced.
And when I say the what
you need to know parts,
obviously I'm making a play off
of Crockford's The Good Parts.
But when I say the what
you need to know parts,
I'm going to explain to you when
we talked about the this keyword.
Or when we talk about the definition
of what closure means.
I'm going to explain to
you in what I hope is
more understandable terms than
just quoting to you the spec.
I'm not just gonna show you a bunch
of screenshots of what the spec says.
Although I think it's important to
be aware of what the spec says, so
that you're not saying things incorrectly.
My focus here is to give you
practical takeaways on things, so
this is the what you need to know
definitions for these things,
rather than necessarily the academic ones.
There will be people that will
disagree with me and say no, no, no,
that's not a type.
Or no, no, no,
that's not really accurate about closures.
And my answer to that is to just shrug and
say, well.
I'm not interested in
being academically formal,
I'm more interested in giving
us practical understanding.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
So, without any further ado,
this is gonna be our first discussion.
Point we're gonna spend a good portion
of the morning talking about scope and
closures.
So we're gonna start by
talking about Nested Scope,
we're gonna move into
a discussion of Hoisting.
May or
may not of ever heard of what hoisting is.
Now I'm gonna do something
kind of interesting,
cuz if you don't understand
anything about these mechanisms.
It should seem strange to you
that third item on the list,
when I talk about the this keyword.
Sort of injected right in the middle of
the discussion about lexical closures.
Maybe that seems weird, maybe it doesn't.
If it doesn't seem weird to you,
I hope it does seem weird to
you by the time we get there.
Because the point is actually that these
are completely opposite mechanisms.
So the reason I stick it right there in
the middle is to make it really obvious,
the contrast, the difference between them.
So this is an unusual approach.
In the books, I didn't deal with a this
keyword inside of the scope in closures
cuz my editor was like,
no, that's too weird.
But when I'm doing training,
I can do whatever I want and
I think it's better to talk about
it there, so that we can contrast.
So that's intentional
that it's kind of weird,
but then we'll jump right back
into a discussion of closure.
And I should also say,
there will be a fair amount of lecturing.
I'm gonna do a bunch of talking and
thing's like that, but
there is also as you know,
there are five exercises.
Each one of those is designed to be
anywhere from seven or eight minutes up to
fifteen minutes of free time that
you're working on something.
Or I give you the exercise,
I give you some time to work on it.
I shut up for a little bit and then I
come back and kind of give you a guided
solution tour if you will,
kind of how I would approach things.
There's no right answer
to any of this stuff, but
I do provide in each one of those
exercises, a fixed version of the files
that gives you my example of
how I would have done it.
So at a later time you can come back and
say, well how did Kyle do it?
But that doesn't necessarily mean
that's the only way to do it, so
there will be exercises for you to do.
Now if we contrast that to what
we're gonna deal with tomorrow,
there's comparatively a lot
less lecture tomorrow and
a whole bunch of just
hacking at the code terminal.
So there's very few slides, and
we spend most of our time just
kind of live coding, tomorrow.
So if you're really looking for that
code and you feel like I'm lecturing and
I'm too much boring,
just hold off until tomorrow.
If you like the lecture stuff,
there'll be plenty of that today.
The goal for today is to give you
a really, really solid foundation
of understanding about the core
mechanisms that JavaScript relies upon.
So that when we talk about scope,
I mean when we talk about
something inside of node.js.
And I just assume that you
understand what lexical scope means
when I talk about a module the scope.
I'm gonna assume that you understand what
that means and I can't assume that today.
Even if I looked at some of the responses
from the pre-event surveys.
Some people felt really
confident with the stuff and
other people are coming in with
not quite so much confidence.
So the goal is that everybody walks
away from today with that confidence.
So that when we talk about node tomorrow,
there aren't
questions about those core mechanisms,
we can really focus on the thing.
It's kind of one of those hidden
secrets about the node world.
A lot of people tend to think that if
you talk about a scale of one to five,
like my understanding of
JavaScript is a two out of five.
Then my understanding of node is
two out of five and in reality,
they're actually kind of skewed.
You can have an understanding three,
in JavaScript, out of five and
you can still be at a one
level understanding in node.
Because node requires you to understand
a whole bunch more of the language
than you've ever been forced
to understand really before.
Or you get yourself into trouble.
So they're kind of skewed and that's why
we set this up as a two day workshop.
So that we can make sure that
we fully understand JavaScript
before we talk about node.